 Hi everyone, today we'll be going over how I did this effect in Touch Designer
 using
 point clouds and tops.
 So here I used MediaPipe to control morphing, but for the sake of simplicity, we'll
 just
 use our keyboard.
 So if you hold down the one key on your keyboard and release, it will morph in the
 exact same
 way as the demo video.
 We'll also just use two, but you can use as many point clouds as you like and you
 can
 use whatever models you like as well.
 So for a quick overview of the project, we are going to learn how to create an instancing
 network using positions and color data.
 We're going to set up a little system to control the particles exploding and then
 morphing
 back into place smoothly, how to make a quick little cage for the particles, and
 some really
 simple post-processing to create this really cool effect.
 So without further ado, let's get started.
 Alright, so the first thing we're going to want to do is import our point cloud
 file.
 So hit tab, and then because we're using tops, select the point file in, and then
 this way
 you can add your point cloud file.
 It's important to note that if you hit red, green, and blue, you'll have these
 options,
 but not all point cloud files have that.
 The general gist is for red, green, and blue, it's probably going to be either XYZ,
 RGB,
 or red, green, blue.
 Select one of those for these.
 But for today, I'm just going to copy and paste mine in because I already have them.
 So yeah, these don't look like the models, but that's fine.
 The first thing we are going to need to figure out is the sort of number problem.
 What I mean by that is if you double click and then press info, you'll see that
 there
 are 403,225 pixels.
 For the second model, there are not that many, there are less.
 So why does this matter?
 So for instancing, we can think of it like particle number one has sort of its
 position
 data and eventually its color data.
 When we morph them, we need to give it an instruction of like, hey, particle one,
 instead
 of being here, I want to move you to some other location with some other color and
 that's
 fine.
 However, as soon as we get to particle 239,122, this doesn't exist.
 So this particle from the first model will try morphing into something that does
 not exist.
 And then you will not be able to do the effect.
 So the main problem we need to solve is how to make them the same size.
 This way, no matter what point cloud file you use, whether it's too big or too
 small,
 it will have the exact same amount of points.
 And we can then do this effect for however many clouds we want.
 So let's first start with handling the position data.
 So first, we are going to want to add a point transform.
 This will allow us to, for example, change the scale of all the points later on.
 This is important now, but we'll get back into it in a bit.
 So one way we can solve the number issue is using two fit tops.
 So if we drag and then hit tab and then fit, what we can do is go to common and we
 can
 set the output resolution to two times.
 What this does is it increases the resolution by two times.
 But what's important is that if you double click, you'll see that there are now
 over
 a million particles, way over a million.
 So we have a lot of particles.
 But if we go to fit again and we hit common, we can then do output resolution to
 limit
 resolution and then I like using 800 by 800, but you might need to do less if your
 computer
 can't handle it and you can do more if your computer can't.
 By doing this now we have 640,000.
 So this might not seem important, but now if we copy and paste all these, then do
 like
 copy, paste and make our second point cloud the input, if we look at the fit 4, it
 also
 has 640,000.
 So this way sort of standardizes how many points there are, so they are all
 consistent.
 So that's great.
 So the last thing we want to do is for fit 1, for input smoothness and viewer
 smoothness,
 to nearest pixel, and we want to do the same for the other fit.
 And then we want to do it for these two as well.
 And that just helps with the particles looking really crisp later on when we render
 it.
 So now we have all of our position data sorted out, so now let's handle color.
 So what we are going to want to do is hit tab and then do point file select and
 drag
 our point cloud right over it.
 So now it's referencing it, you can see it.
 And then same thing, click and do red, green and blue.
 Great.
 So now something is going on, they're different.
 So we need to make this into color, and the way you do that is attach a map and
 then you
 divide by 127.
 And then we do it correctly, it should be red.
 There you go.
 And I can explain why this is in another video, but it has something to do with how
 color
 values are sorted, and they're not between values 0 and 1.
 So we can do the same thing with the fit trick, select both of these, Command C,
 Command V,
 or copy and paste, and then we should see 640,000 pixels, and that we do.
 So we do the same thing, so just copy and paste this entire network, and then drag
 your
 second point cloud to it, and then great.
 Once again we should see 640,000, and that we do.
 So now we can set up for our switch system.
 So go to switch, and tops, and then we need to connect the position nodes to switch,
 and
 then do one again for color.
 So what you can do, if you're really organized, is say for example like position,
 dragon,
 and then color, dragon, and then similarly position, butterfly, color, butterfly.
 And these naming conventions are completely arbitrary.
 They can be whatever you want.
 So when people tell you to type POS, COL, it's nothing to do with syntax, at least
 for now.
 It's just for your own discretion, whatever helps you understand it.
 So if you wanted to, you could say for example, I don't know, position, drag, that
 works too.
 But this is just a really simple way of doing it.
 So now we are going to want to attach both of our position nodes to switch with our
 color
 nodes into the other switch.
 So now we can see in the switch one if we press P, that we have two inputs, one for
 the dragon, one for the butterfly, and for color, same thing.
 Important for both of them, we want to blend between inputs.
 This is because, for example, if you have values between 0 and 1, let's say you
 want
 to morph something halfway between the dragon and the butterfly, if you blend
 between inputs,
 it will allow you to have a sort of blend, and that's what gives you that really
 clean
 morphing effect where everything switches at the same time.
 Great.
 And then we can sort of really neatly tie this up by adding a null.
 When I first used Tush Designer, I didn't really understand why people use nulls,
 but
 an analogy is that you can treat them like periods in sentences.
 So when you write an essay, you don't have to use periods, but it allows you to
 discern
 when you finish an idea and when you're starting the next one, and that's what we're
 doing.
 We have finished creating our system for position data and color data, so we add a
 null.
 And we can name it position data and color.
 So that way, if we make edits in our sentence or our thoughts, then it will remain
 on effect,
 but at least we know that's where it ends.
 So we'll come back to this in a bit.
 But just so we can sort of see what's going on, we can start setting up a really
 simple
 render setup.
 So fit a tab, go to comp, geometry, then we see this torus.
 Let's get rid of that.
 So double click, delete that, hit tab, go to solve, then add, and then P, and then
 add
 points.
 So this will make it such that when we instance, we can add points, and then we
 need to convert
 that.
 Convert, and then it should be from type, convert to particles per point, and then
 particles
 type render as point sprites.
 And then we want to see it in both the render and the geo comp.
 So purple render, blue for display.
 Great.
 So it looks like nothing has happened, which is expected.
 So now let's add a camera, go to comp, then camera, light, then a render.
 So then go to top, render, and we still see nothing, which is expected.
 So now we are going to want to instance our lovely data that we prepared.
 So one way we can think of instancing is that, believe it or not, each pixel on
 their color
 represents a coordinate in this sort of three dimensional space.
 I will get to that in another video, but each pixel has its own coordinate and
 geographical
 position baked into it through the color.
 Same thing for the actual color.
 So this is the actual color that I will show.
 Instead of me manually telling TouchSiner, hey, I want you to put particle two at
 this
 XYZ coordinate, we can just reference this and reference this really simply.
 So we can do so by going to geo one, go to instance, turn instancing on, and then
 translate
 off is sort of like the X, Y, and Z position, so sort of like your coordinates.
 So we are going to want to take our position top, drag it into translate off, then
 translate
 XYZ, R, G, B. Now we can see we have something, and I guess it turns out while I
 was making
 these models, I didn't take away the bug one, so you can enjoy two, but at least we
 can
 see our dragon.
 Great.
 And then to add color, we go to the second tab, instance two, go to the color mode,
 and
 drag the color top, and once again, R, G, and B. And we can see we have a red
 dragon.
 Cool.
 So now we can adjust the sizes of these points using material, so hit tab, go to
 that, and
 then point sprite, and then drag it onto the geo, select the material, and then
 great.
 So if you go to point sprite, change the size of these particles, we can change it
 here.
 So you want it bigger, obviously drag it up, you want it smaller, you just drag it
 down.
 And great.
 I think it's 0.7, looks pretty cool, so it gives that, you know what it is, but
 when
 it morphs, it's pretty obvious.
 So great.
 Now we have that.
 So we now need to switch between each one really cleanly.
 So now we will create our chop setup so we can do things like switch between them,
 explode
 the particles, and all that.
 So here's how we do it.
 So the first thing we're going to want to do is use chops.
 So go to tab, chop, and then keyboard in.
 So for keyboard in, if we select it to 1, if we hit the number 1 key, let go, it
 works.
 We can set this to any number, so 5 as well, it works.
 You can even set it to letters, but for this video, let's just stick to 1.
 So when it's morphing, there are a couple of things going on.
 So first, the particles explode while still being a dragon, or the first model.
 After you release the keyboard, it will switch all the coordinates, get rid of the
 explosion,
 and then it will morph into the second model.
 So we need to sort of account for that delay, or sort of those chain of events.
 So the first thing we'll do is set it so that when we hit 1, we have some number
 that will
 act as how much the particles explode.
 So to do that, we can first use a math.
 So math, put a range, and then we can set the from range and the to range, two
 values
 we want to use.
 So what this does is, for the from range, it says, okay, from my input, this is the
 range of values, and I want to scale those values to this new range, so if we hit 1,
 the new max instead of 1 should be, now the max is 0.87, so if we hit 1, we have
 that.
 And what I mean by scale down is, for example, this part, you don't have to follow,
 but let's
 say we have it, right?
 So now when we click it, we get the value 0.5.
 Instead of the value being half of 1, it should now be half of 0.37, and if we hit
 1, we can
 see that work.
 So that's what I mean by it's scale of the value down.
 Great.
 So instead of just it being like, okay, I hold the keyboard, it's immediately that
 value,
 we want a sort of gradient, so it happens smoothly.
 So what we can do is use lag, and if you want smoother animations for anything,
 this is
 your go-to.
 So now if we hold 1, value changes really smoothly.
 So we'll see here that now there are also two values, so what do they mean?
 The first one means the lag, or how long it takes to get to the value, where values
 increase,
 and the second one for when it decreases.
 So to make this really exaggerated, let's set this to 5 and 1, and 0.1.
 So what this means is that it will take five seconds for it going from 0 to 0.37,
 and to
 go back down to 0, it's super quick.
 So if I hold 1, it will take a while to get to the max value, and when I let go, it's
 really quick.
 So hold 1.
 As you can see, it's taking its sweet time getting to 0.37, but if we let go, it's
 gone
 immediately.
 So it's subtle, but it's important, because for the animation visual, you want a
 really
 slow expansion, but a really quick morph.
 So what we can do is play around with it, but I liked 0.7 and 0.2.
 So once again, we can add a period to our plot, and add a null.
 So now we know that this is the amplitude, and once again, this is a generic naming
 convention.
 You can name this whatever you want, you can leave it at null 1, but this just
 makes it
 such that we know, okay, this value is for the amplitude.
 Great.
 The second thing we need to do is now add a count.
 So we need to know that when you let go of it, it will start morphing into the next
 and
 blend into the second input.
 So we need a way to figure out, as this value decreases, it will count up 1.
 So first we do a lag for really smooth values, once again, 0.5 to 0.2, and to do
 the count
 part we use a count chop, so count.
 And then we need it to trigger on decreasing values, so set to 0.7.
 So this means that when the value goes from 1 to 0, right, decreasing values, when
 it
 gets below 0.7, it will count up, so if we hit 1 and we release, it counts to 1.
 Great.
 Now, we only have two inputs, so what happens if we do it again?
 We are at 0, 1, and 2, so that's not good.
 So we need to clamp these values, so go to count, limit, loop min and max, and then
 we
 can do it to 1, and then reset them.
 So now, if we hold 1, release, do it again, it will go back to the first input, 0.
 And we just change this value for however many point clouds we have, so if we have
 three
 point clouds, so if we have three point clouds, it will be 2, so it will go from
 the first
 input, the second input, the third input, back to the first input.
 Great.
 And then, once again, just to make it a little smoother, we add another lag, we add
 these
 values, and then we add a null.
 And then what we can do is, we can name this one index, but once again, these can
 be named
 whatever you want, or however it best helps you keep track and understand what
 everything
 is doing.
 So now, if we wire them up, so go back to the switch, for index, you click on this
 little
 star icon, then drag it into index, you'll see it turns blue and there's an arrow
 which
 means it's being referenced, then similarly we drag it, great.
 So now, if we hold 1, it should switch really cleanly, once we're back down, it
 does, great.
 So now we need the particles to explode, so here's how we do that.
 So we're gonna go back to our position network, and we're gonna add a couple of
 things, and
 that's why it's really nice to add this dot, or not dot, this null, the act like a
 period,
 because now we can edit it again, and we are going to add noise.
 So from the switch, drag that tab, and then hit noise, and then we see a bunch of
 things
 happening.
 Once again, I can go into it in another video, but pretty much, whenever these
 colors are
 different, it means the geographical position of each particle is different.
 So if we hook it up, we're gonna get something that does not look like a butterfly,
 which
 is good, and we control it, so undo that, and eventually we are going to add this
 noise
 back to our original position.
 So think of it as we are adding distortion to our original position data.
 So the first thing we are going to want to do is hit P, pull up the menu, output,
 set
 it to only noise, and then for these values, we can make it anything we want, so
 please
 experiment, but these are the ones that I used for the project.
 Yeah, and then monochrome off, and then print the second one as well, and this
 makes us
 such that they're more like lines.
 Great, so we can kind of see it's working, but how do we make it, if I hit 1, go,
 you
 know, no noise anymore, we're going to want to look at amplitude, so going back to
 our
 chop network, go to amp, make it active, drag it to amplitude, chop reference, and
 great.
 Now we see our particle equal 1, we'll see that the amplitude will change as well,
 right,
 so it's the first part of the chop setup, and when we release it, it will count the
 position, so it will switch to a new position, while also the amplitude goes down.
 So great, we hold, let go, it will change index and also get rid of this noise, so
 now
 we have a really clean morphing effect.
 So now we are going to want to sort of change the perspective of the dragon, and we
 can
 do this by going to our point transform, much earlier on.
 So going to go back to this, and then we can just click it so we can see in the
 background.
 And then one other thing is let's just select everything, or rather click render,
 select
 everything, go to common, and then we just want everything to look really clean, so
 viewer
 smoothness to nearest pixel, kind of helps out there, and then pixel format, this
 just
 kind of makes it like higher render or lower render, so make it 32 bit flow, great,
 so
 now we have a sort of like a wider color range, and that's great, so we do it again,
 colors
 are much more vibrant, and everything's a lot more crisp, and good.
 So for this one, you know, we want to kind of like rotate it, right, so it's like,
 this
 one you can just kind of play around, so it's like 90, maybe like another 90, and
 then
 this one, I don't have like a perfect science to it, but honestly this one is
 pretty cool.
 And for the dragon, it's also pretty cool actually, maybe I should have just seen
 this
 instead, but you know, you get to just play around with alleys until you get
 something
 that you like, I'll see if I can get that, nice.
 And then we are going to want to make it spin, so we want the box to have only the
 lines,
 so hit tab, material, and then go to wireframe, then drag it on, so now we have
 lines, and
 we can go to wireframe mode, topology, another way you can do it is tab, line, and
 then drag
 it on here, and this way you control things like how wide it is, how thin it is,
 and a
 lot more things, but wireframe is easy for now.
 Okay, and then for the balls, we don't want there to be shading, at least for now,
 so
 we can use constant, drag it on, and then now they don't have any sort of
 reflections,
 and then I kind of want the box to be bigger, so we can go like 1.5, and the sphere
 level
 can give it smaller, so 0.03, nice, and then for the geo, we can make this a bit
 smaller,
 so like 0.8, and then, yeah, so now it's contained in the box, we hit 1, great, so
 now our models
 are inside this rotating box, and to add a background, we can do, answer operator,
 transform,
 and then set comp over back on color, and then the alpha to 1, and then right,
 great.
 Another way you can do this is like you do a constant, and then this will sort of
 be
 your background, to the resolution of your project, then use an over, make your
 effect
 over this background, and then connect it that way, and we can make this black,
 great.
 So yeah, now we have a morphing particle effect.
 If you want to go more into the post-processing effects, the file will be in my
 Patreon, which
 is in the bio, but yeah, so a couple of nodes, and a little bit of chopped magic,
 we have
 created this really cool effect.
 So you can do a lot of things too, so for example, if you want these particles to
 move,
 you can go to noise, trans, noise to 40, and then transform, like translate, 40,
 abs time
 dot second, so you can really exaggerate a number, but now it will move while that
 happens.
 Make it a bit more chill, nice, now it's moving really subtly, but yeah, so I hope
 you enjoy
 this tutorial, I hope it's the first of many, and please enjoy, thank you so much.
